# SEACAR Water Quality Pilot Project

# Task 1a: Exploratory Analysis

The exploratory analyses include:
1.	Data slicing and outlier removal
2.	Line chart of weekly/monthly/yearly count of data records for each WQ parameter in each managed area.
3.	Line chart with error bars showing monthly and yearly mean and standard deviation of each WQ parameter in each managed area
4.	Line charts of monthly mean at different stations for each WQ parameter in each managed area.
5.	Box plots of WQ parameters aggregated by month of the year for each managed area.
6.	Plots in (4) and (5) of four managed areas with sufficient data are organized by rows (WQ parameter) and columns (managed areas) in order to determine seasonality (https://usf.box.com/s/x05pmyx686hwsp56km0ayelwf1uxxnu2)
7.	Histogram showing sampling frequencies at each observation locations for each WQ parameters
8.	Pie chart showing the ratios of random and fixed sampling locations for each WQ parameters
9.	Bar chart of ratios of fixed sampling locations for each WQ parameters

Maps are created to show the spatial distribution of the WQ samples.
1.	Bubble map of sampling points of WQ parameter in each managed area. The Github repository only shows dissolved oxygen and total nitrogen. Maps of other parameters can be easily generated by changing program parameters.
2.	Bubble maps of sampling points of WQ parameter in each month of a year in each managed area. The Github repository only shows dissolved oxygen and total nitrogen in 2019. Maps of other parameters and in other years can be easily generated by changing program parameters.
3.	Maps showing locations of different continuous stations are created for each managed area.

Analyses in Task 1a are shared in:
-	[SEACAR_WQ_Exploratory_Analysis_Dis.ipynb](https://github.com/qiang-yi/SEACAR_WQ_Pilot/blob/main/SEACAR_WQ_Exploratory_Analysis_Dis.ipynb): Temporal analysis of discrete data
-	[Sample_Location_Analysis_Dis.ipynb](https://github.com/qiang-yi/SEACAR_WQ_Pilot/blob/main/Sample_Location_Analysis_Dis.ipynb): Spatial locations of discrete data
-	[SEACAR_WQ_Exploratory_Analysis_Con.ipynb](https://github.com/qiang-yi/SEACAR_WQ_Pilot/blob/main/SEACAR_WQ_Exploratory_Analysis_Con.ipynb): Temporal analysis of continuous data: all stations
-	[Sample_Location_Analysis_Con.ipynb](https://github.com/qiang-yi/SEACAR_WQ_Pilot/blob/main/Sample_Location_Analysis_Con.ipynb): Spatial locations of discrete data: all stations
-	[SEACAR_WQ_Exploratory_Analysis_Con_Stations.ipynb](https://github.com/qiang-yi/SEACAR_WQ_Pilot/blob/main/SEACAR_WQ_Exploratory_Analysis_Con_Stations.ipynb): Temporal analysis of continuous data: separate by station
-	[Sample_Location_Analysis_Con_Stations.ipynb](https://github.com/qiang-yi/SEACAR_WQ_Pilot/blob/main/Sample_Location_Analysis_Con_Stations.ipynb): Spatial locations of discrete data: separate by station

# Task 1b: Spatial Interpolation

### 1b.1 Regression Analysis with WQ Parameters
Ordinary least square regression (OLS) and Pearson correlation analyses have been conducted to examine the relations between the potential covariates and water quality parameters. The analyses have been conducted with data from 2016 to 2018 in all managed areas and in separate managed areas. The general procedure is:
1)	Preprocessing, including outlier removal, daytime data selection, combine continuous and discrete data, and select data in specific managed areas and years
2)	Aggregate data in identical locations to mean values in wet and dry seasons (tentative dry season: Nov. – Apr., wet season: May to Oct.)
3)	Extract values from covariate rasters to water quality locations
4)	Conduct Pearson correlation and OLS regression analysis in wet and dry seasons

Regression and correlation analysis are documented in:

[Covariates_Analysis_All](https://github.com/qiang-yi/SEACAR_WQ_Pilot/blob/main/Covariates_Analysis_All.ipynb): Analysis with 2016-2018 data in all managed areas
[Covariates_Analysis_MA](https://github.com/qiang-yi/SEACAR_WQ_Pilot/blob/main/Covariates_Analysis_MA.ipynb): Analysis with 2016-2018 data in Charlotte Harbor, Estero Bay and Big Bend


### 1b.2 Regression Analysis with WQ Parameters
